1. null vs undefined
Question: What are the differences between null and undefined?

Answer: JavaScript has two distinct values for nothing, null and undefined.

undefined
undefined means, value of the variable is not defined. JavaScript has a global variable undefined whose value is "undefined" and typeof undefined is also "undefined". Remember, undefined is not a constant or a keyword. undefined is a type with exactly one value: undefined. Assigning a new value to it does not change the value of the type undefined.

8 Ways to get Undefined:
A declared variable without assigning any value to it.
Implicit returns of functions due to missing return statements.
return statements that do not explicitly return anything.
Lookups of non-existent properties in an object.
Function parameters that have not passed.
Anything that has been set to the value of undefined.
Any expression in the form of void(expression)
The value of the global variable undefined
null
null means empty or non-existent value which is used by programmers to indicate “no value”. null is a primitive value and you can assign null to any variable. null is not an object, it is a primitive value. For example, you cannot add properties to it. Sometimes people wrongly assume that it is an object, because typeof null returns "object".

Btw, null == undefined ref: history of typeof null

2. == Vs ===
Question: What are the differences between == and ===?

Answer: The simplest way of saying that, == will not check types and === will check whether both sides are of same type. So, == is tolerant. But under the hood it converts to its convenient type to have both in same type and then do the comparison.

=== compares the types and values. Hence, if both sides are not same type, answer is always false. For example, if you are comparing two strings, they must have identical character sets. For other primitives (number, boolean) must share the same value.

Rule for implicit coercion: Comparison by using == does implicit type conversion under the hood. And rules for implicit coercion are as follows-

If both operands are same type use ===
undefined == null
If one operands is string another is number, convert string to number
If one is boolean and another is non-boolean, convert boolean to number and then perform comparison
While comparing a string or number to an object, try to convert the object to a primitive type and then try to compare
Be careful while comparing objects, identifiers must reference the same objects or same array.


var a = {a: 1};
var b = {a: 1};
a == b //false
a === b //false

var c = a;
a == c//true
a === c //true
          
Special note: NaN, null and undefined will never === another type. NaN does not even === itself.

Homework: Read confusing special cases of NaN

3. Object Equality
Question: How would you compare two objects in JavaScript?

Basics: JavaScript has two different approaches for testing equality. Primitives like strings and numbers are compared by their value, while objects like arrays, dates, and user defined objects are compared by their reference. This means it compares whether two objects are referring to the same location in memory.

Answer: Equality check will check whether two objects have same value for same property. To check that, you can get the keys for both the objects. If the number of properties doesn't match, these two objects are not equal. Secondly, you will check each property whether they have the same value. If all the properties have same value, they are equal.


function isEqual(a, b) {
    var aProps = Object.getOwnPropertyNames(a),
        bProps = Object.getOwnPropertyNames(b);

    if (aProps.length != bProps.length) {
        return false;
    }

    for (var i = 0; i < aProps.length; i++) {
        var propName = aProps[i];
        
        if (a[propName] !== b[propName]) {
            return false;
        }
    }
    return true;
}
        
Limitation:
If one of the property values is itself an object
If one of the property values is NaN (the only value in JavaScript that is not equal to itself?)
If one object has a property with value undefined, while another object doesn't have the property (which thus evaluates as undefined). Btw, you can solve this problem by using hasOwnProperty
ref: object equality in JS, Underscore.js isEqual function

4. True Lies
Question: 11+ true false related questions that will trick you.

falsy: In javascript 6 things are falsy and they are- false, null, undefined, '', 0, NaN

truthy: There are only two truthy things- true and everything that is not false

True False Rapid Fire
Question: Is 'false' is false?

Answer: No. Because, it's a string with length greater than 0. Only empty string is false.

Question: Is ' ' is false?

Answer: No. Because, it's not an empty string. There is a white space in it.

Question: What about {}?

Answer: true. It's an object. An object without any property is an object can't be falsy.

Question: Tell me about []?

Answer: This is also truthy. It's an array object (array is child of object) is truthy.

Question: You talked bout '' to be falsy. What about new String('')?

Answer: Though you are passing empty string to the string constructor, it is creating an String object. More precisely a instance of String object. It becomes an object. Hence, it is not false. so, it is truthy.

Question: Tell me about new Boolean(false)

Answer: truthy. As it creates an instance of the Boolean object which is an object. Object is truthy.

Question: Boolean(function(){})

Answer: true if you pass a truthy value to Boolean, it will be true.

Question: Boolean(/foo/)

Answer: true

Question: true%1

Answer: 0. When you are trying to find reminder of true, true becomes 1 and reminder of 1 while dividing by 1 is 0. you will get same result if you doe false%1

Question: ''%1

Answer: 0

5. Truthy isn't Equal to true
Question: As [] is true, []==true should also be true. right?

Answer: You are right about first part, [], empty array is an object and object is always truthy. Hence, if you use if([]){console.log('its true')} you will see the log.

However, special case about == (double equal) is that it will do some implicit coercion.

Since left and right side of the equality are two different types, JavaScript can't compare them directly . Hence, under the hood, JavaScript will convert them to compare. first right side of the equality will be cooereced to a number and number of true would be 1.

After that, JavaScript implementation will try to convert [] by usingtoPrimitive (of JavaScript implementation). since [].valueOf is not primitive will use toString and will get ""

Now you are comparing "" == 1 and still left and right is not same type. Hence left side will be converted again to a number and empty string will be 0.

Finally, they are of same type, you are comparing 0 === 1 which will be false.

ref: angus croll: truth and eqality in JS, ref: truthy and falsy

6. Extend Core Object
Question: How could you write a method on instance of a date which will give you next day?

Answer: I have to declare a method on the prototype of Date object. To get access to the current value of the instance of the date, i will use this


Date.prototype.nextDay = function(){
  var currentDate = this.getDate();
  return new Date(this.setDate(currentDate +1));
}

var date = new Date(); 
date; //Fri May 16 2014 20:47:14 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time)
date.nextDay();//Sat May 17 2014 20:47:14 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time)
        
7. bind
Question: If you want to use an arbitrary object as value of this, how will you do that?

Answer: There are at least three different ways to doing this by using bind, call and apply. For example, I have a method named deductMontlyFee in the object monica and by default value of this would be monica inside the method.


var monica = {
  name: 'Monica Geller',
  total: 400,
  deductMontlyFee: function(fee){
     this.total = this.total - fee;
     return this.name + ' remaining balance is '+ this.total; 
  }
}
        
If I bind the deductMontlyFee of monica with another object rachel and pass rachel as first parameter of the bind function, rachel would be the value of this.


var rachel = {name: 'Rachel Green', total: 1500};
var rachelFeeDeductor = monica.deductMonthlyFee.bind(rachel, 200);

rachelFeeDeductor(); //"Rachel Green remaining balance is 1300"
rachelFeeDeductor(); //"Rachel Green remaining balance is 1100"
        
bind allows you to borrow a method and set the value of this without calling the function. It simply returns an exact copy of the function with new value of this. You can reuse the same function with new value of this without harming the old one.


var ross = {name:'Ross Geller', total:250};
var rossFeeDeductor = monica.deductMonthlyFee.bind(ross, 25);
rossFeeDeductor(); //"Ross Geller remaining balance is 225"
rossFeeDeductor(); //"Ross Geller remaining balance is 200"

rachelFeeDeductor(); //"Rachel Green remaining balance is 900"
        
Question: If an older browser dont have bind function, how will you shim it

Answer: Look at the code below and use your brain.


Function.prototype.bind = Function.prototype.bind || function(context){
  var self = this;
  return function(){
    return self.apply(context, arguments);
  };
}
        
8. arguments and call
Question: Write a simple function to tell whether 2 is passed as parameter or not?

Basics: arguments is a local variable, available inside all functions that provides a collection of all the arguments passed to the function. arguments is not an array rather an array like object. It has length but doesn't have the methods like forEach, indexOf, etc.

Answer: First convert arguments to an array by calling slice method on an array and pass arguments. After that simply use indexOf.


function isTwoPassed(){
  var args = Array.prototype.slice.call(arguments);
  return args.indexOf(2) != -1;
}

isTwoPassed(1,4) //false
isTowPassed(5,3,1,2) //true
        
Danger: Don't name any argument as "arguments" or dont create any local variable named as "arguments", this will override build in arguments object.

9. apply
Question: How could you use Math.max to find the max value in an array?

Answer: Use apply on Math.max and pass the array as apply takes an array of arguments. Since we are not reading anything from this or using it at all. We can simply pass null as first parameter.


function getMax(arr){
  return Math.max.apply(null, arr);  
}
        
Extra: call and apply, both takes the value of this as first parameter. However, call takes a collection of arguments after first parameter whereas apply use an array of arguments as second parameter.

Tip: If you have weaker memory like me, you can remember apply starts with "a" and array starts with "a"

10. this
Question: What the heck is this in JavaScript?

Answer: At the time of execution of every function, JavaScript engine sets a property to the function called this which refer to the current execution context. this is always refer to an object and depends on how function is called. There are 7 different cases where the value of this varies.

In the global context or inside a function this refers to the window object.
Inside IIFE (immediate invoking function) if you use "use strict", value of this is undefined. To pass access window inside IIFE with "use strict", you have to pass this.
While executing a function in the context of an object, the object becomes the value of this
Inside a setTimeout function, the value of this is the window object.
If you use a constructor (by using new keyword) to create an object, the value of this will refer to the newly created object.
You can set the value of this to any arbitrary object by passing the object as the first parameter of bind, call or apply
For dom event handler, value of this would be the element that fired the event
ref: Understand JavaScript this in a crystal clear way

11. Rapid Fire
Question: What is typeof []

Answer: Object. Actually Array is derived from Object. If you want to check array use Array.isArray(arr)

Question: What is typeof arguments

Answer: Object. arguments are array like but not array. it has length, can access by index but can't push pop, etc.

Question: What is 2+true

Answer: 3. The plus operator between a number and a boolean or two boolean will convert boolean to number. Hence, true converts to 1 and you get result of 2+1

Question: What is '6'+9

Answer: 69. If one of the operands of the plus (+) operator is string it will convert other number or boolean to string and perform a concatenation. For the same reason, "2"+true will return "2true"

Question: What is the value of 4+3+2+"1"

Answer: 91 . The addition starts from the left, 4+3 results 7 and 7+2 is 9. So far, the plus operator is performing addition as both the operands are number. After that 9 + "1" where one of the operands is string and plus operator will perform concatenation.

Question: What is the value of "1"+2+4

Answer: "124". For this one "1" + 2 will produce "12" and "12"+4 will generates "124".

Question: What is the value of -'34'+10

Answer: -24. minus(-) in front of a string is an unary operator that will convert the string to a number and will make it negative. Hence, -'34' becomes, -34 and then plus (+) will perform simple addition as both the operands are number.

Question: What is the value of +'dude'

Answer: NaN. The plus (+) operator in front of a string is an unary operator that will try to convert the string to number. Here, JavaScript will fail to convert the "dude" to a number and will produce NaN.

Question: If you have var y = 1, x = y = typeof x; What is the value of x?

Answer: "undefined"

Question: for var a = (2, 3, 5); what is the value of a?

Answer: 5. The comma operator evaluates each of its operands (from left to right) and returns the value of the last operand. ref: MDN

Question: for var a = (1, 5 - 1) * 2 what is the value of a?

Answer: 8

Question: What is the value of !'bang'

Answer: false. ! is NOT. If you put ! in front of truthy values, it will return false. Using !! (double bang) is a tricky way to check anything truthy or falsy by avoiding implicit type conversion of == comparison.

Question: What is the value of parseFloat('12.3.4')

Answer: 12.3

Question: What is the value of Math.max([2,3,4,5]);

Answer: NaN

Question: 3 instanceof Number

Answer: false

Question:null == undefined

Answer: true

Question:What is the value of !!function(){};

Answer: true

Question: What is the value of typeof bar

Answer: "undefined"

Question: What is the value of typeof null

Answer: "object"

Question: If var a = 2, b =3 what would be value of a && b

Answer: 3

Question: What would be consoled var foo = 'outside'; function logIt(){console.log(foo); var foo = 'inside';} logIt();

Answer: undefined

Question: What is -5%2

Answer:-1. the result of remainder always get the symbol of first operand

Question: Why .1+.2 != .3

Answer:

Question: 42..toString()

Anwser: "42"

Question: 4.2..toString

Anwser: //SyntaxError: Unexpected token .

Question:42 . toString()

Anwser: "42"

Question: typeof(NaN)

Anwser:"number"

Question: 2 in [1,2]

Anwser: false. Because "in" returns whether a particular property/index available in the Object. In this case object has index 0 and 1 but don't have 2. Hence you get false.

12. log prefix
Question: How could you set a prefix before everything you log? for example, if you log('my message') it will log: "(app) my message"

Answer: Just get the arguments, convert it to an array and unshift whatever prefix you want to set. Finally, use apply to pass all the arguments to console.


function log(){
  var args = Array.prototype.slice.call(arguments);
  args.unshift('(app)');
  console.log.apply(console, args);
}

log('my message'); //(app) my message
log('my message', 'your message'); //(app) my message your message 
        
ref: This is a really good materials, walks you through an interview process.

13. Scope and hoisting
Question: What will you see in the console for the following example?


var a = 1; 
function b() { 
    a = 10; 
    return; 
    function a() {} 
} 
b(); 
console.log(a);          
        
Answer: 1

Explanation:
function declaration function a(){} is hoisted first and it behaves like var a = function () {};. Hence in local scope variable a is created.
If you have two variables with same name (one in global another in local), local variable always get precedence over global variable.
When you set a = 10;, you are setting the local variable a , not the global one. Hence, the value of global variable remain same and you get, 1 in the log. ref: js hoisting/scope
Extra: If you didnt have a function named as "a", you will see 10 in the log.
ref: watch this video or learn more about scope and hoisting

14. Closures Inside Loops
Question: Look at the code below, you have a for loop if you have setTimeout inside it. If log the loop counter inside setTimeout, what will be logged?


  for(var i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
    setTimeout(function() {
      console.log(i);  
    }, 10);
}
Answer: The above will not output the numbers 0 through 9, but will simply print the number 10 ten times.

Explanation: The console log is inside the anonymous function of setTimeout and setTimeout is executed when current call stack is over. So, the loop finishes and before setTimeout get the chance to execute. However, anonymous functions keep a reference to i by creating a closure. Since, the loop is already finished, the value i has been set to 10. When setTimeout use the value of i by reference, it gets the value of i as 10. Hence, you see 10 ten times.

Solution: You can fix it by avoiding closure. Just create a IIFE (Immediately Invoked Function Expression), it will create its own scope and you can pass i to the function. In that case i will be a local variable (will not refer to i in the closure) and value of the i in every loop will be preserved.


for(var i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
    setTimeout((function(i) {
      console.log(i);
    })(i), 10)
}
Alternative Solution: Look at the code below and use your brain (if any).


for(var i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  setTimeout(console.log.bind(console, i), 10);
}
15. delete can delete but
Question: Look at the code below, I have a property in a object and I am creating a new object where I am setting it to a new value. If I delete that property what will i get if I try to access that property?


var myObject = {
    price: 20.99,
    get_price : function() {
        return this.price;
    }
};
var customObject = Object.create(myObject);
customObject.price = 19.99;

delete customObject.price;
console.log(customObject.get_price());
        
Answer: You will see 20.99

Explanation: This is very interesting question. When you create object.create(myObject) you are creating new object where the myObject will be the parent of the newly created object. Hence the price property will be at the parent.

When you are assigning some value to customObject.price, you are creating a new property on the child. This means, when you delete customObject.price it deletes the price property in the customObject (in the child). However, when you call the method getprice, first it looks for this.price in the child since the customObject doesn't have price property, JavaScript executor walks through the prototype chain towards the parent. Since customObject was inherited from myObject and myObject has a price property, the get_price method returns the price from parent. Hence, you are getting 20.99

16. Pass by value or by reference
Question: Does JavaScript pass parameter by value or by reference?

Answer: Primitive type (string, number, etc.) are passed by value and objects are passed by reference. If you change a property of the passed object, the change will be affected. However, you assign a new object to the passed object, the changes will not be reflected.


var num = 10,
    name = "Addy Osmani",
    obj1 = {
      value: "first value"
    },
    obj2 = {
     value: "second value"
    },
    obj3 = obj2;
 
function change(num, name, obj1, obj2) {
    num = num * 10;
    name = "Paul Irish";
    obj1 = obj2;
    obj2.value = "new value";
}
 
change(num, name, obj1, obj2);
 
console.log(num); // 10
console.log(name);// "Addy Osmani"
console.log(obj1.value);//"first value"
console.log(obj2.valuee);//"new value"
console.log(obj3.valuee);//"new value"        
     
ref: Snook: passing by value or reference

17. memoization
Question: How could you implement cache to save calculation time for a recursive fibonacci function?

Answer: You could use poor man's memoization with a global variable. If fibonacci is already calculated it is served from the global memo array otherwise it is calculated.


var memo = [];

function _fibonacci(n) {
   if(memo[n]){    
    return memo[n];
   }
   else if (n < 2){
     return 1;
   }else{
     fibonacci(n-2) + fibonacci(n-1);
   }
}
        
Better Implementation: implement memoization in JavaScript

18. Cache function execution
Question: How could you cache execution of any function?

Answer: You could have a method where you will pass a function and it will internally maintain a cache object where calculated value will be cached. When you will call the function with same argument, the cached value will be served.


function cacheFn(fn) {
    var cache={};
    
    return function(arg){
        if (cache[arg]){
           return cache[arg];
        }
        else{
           cache[arg] = fn(arg);
            return cache[arg];
        }
    }
}
        
Question: What if you are passing more than one argument?

Answer: First we have to use arguments to get all the parameters passed to the function and then we can generate key for the cache object. Generating key for the cache object could be tricky and one solution could be just get the all the parameters and concatenate those. Look at the code below.


return function(){
  var args = arguments;  
  var key = [].slice.call(args).join('');
  if(cache[key]){
      return cache[key];
  }
  else{
      cache[key] = fn.apply(thi, args);
      return cache[key];
  }
}
        
19. JQuery style chaining
Question: If you need to implement the following chaining with call back, how will you implement it?


function slow(callback) {
    setTimeout(function(){
        if (Math.random() > 0.5) {
            return callback("Error 417",null)
        }
        callback(null, {id:123})
    },500);
}

function exec(fn){
//write your code here
}

exec(slow).done(function(data){
    console.log(data);
}).fail(function(err){
    console.log("Error: " + err);
})
        
Too much sleepy now. will try to put it up tomorrow.


var obj = {   // every method returns obj---------v
    first: function() { console.log('first');   return obj; },
    second: function() { console.log('second'); return obj; },
    third: function() { console.log('third');   return obj; }
}

obj.first().second().third();
        
ref: jquery like chaining or jquery like chaining

20. Animation
Question: How could you implement moveLeft animation?

Answer: Use setInterval that will place the element to the left position by some pixels in every 10ms. Hence, you will see the element moving towards the desired position. When you call setInterval, it returns a timeId. After reaching the desired location, you have to clear the time interval so that function will not be called again and again in every 10ms.


function moveLeft(elem, distance) {
  var left = 0;

  function frame() {
    left++;
    elem.style.left = left + 'px';

    if (left == distance)
      clearInterval(timeId)
  }

  var timeId = setInterval(frame, 10); // draw every 10ms
}
        
21. Currying
Question: How would you implement currying for any functions?

What is curring: Curring is partial invocation of a function. Currying means first few arguments of a function is pre-processed and a function is returned. The returning function can add more arguments to the curried function. It's like if you have given one or two spice to the curry and cooked little bit, still you can add further spice to it. A simple example will look like-


function addBase(base){
  return function(num){
    return base + num;
  }
}

var addTen = addBase(10);
addTen(5); //15
addTen(80); //90
addTen(-5); //5
        
Explanation: You are creating a closure that return a function. When you are curring with a new number, new number is added to the base you have provided.

Answer: You can add a curry method to the prototype of Function. If now parameters is passed to curry, you simply return the current function. If you have provided arguments to curry there are two steps

Step-1: Concatenate old arguments (provided while creating curry), with new arguments (added after cooking little bit) by using args.concat(toArray(arguments))
Step-2: Pass all the arguments to the function by using apply.
Extra: Just be careful to retain the value of this.

Function.prototype.curry = function() {
    if (arguments.length<1) {
        return this; //nothing to curry. return function
    }
    var self = this;
    var args = toArray(arguments);
    return function() {
        return self.apply(this, args.concat(toArray(arguments)));
    }
}

function toArray(args) {
    return Array.prototype.slice.call(args);
}
        
To use it: Just pass the argument to the function.curry method and a function will be returned. Use returned function for further currying


function converter = function(factor, symbol, input){
  return input * factor + symbol;
}

var milesToKm = converter.curry(1.62, 'km');
mileToKm(3); //result here

var kgToLb = converter.curry(2.2, 'lb');
kgToLb(3); //result here 
        
ref: Favoring Curry, curry: cooking up tastier functions

Deleted Questions
In JavaScript isNaN(undefined) returns true. how could you fix it? Answer: use function isReallyNaN (x){return x!==x;}
What are differences between host object and native object? read answer here
Why extending build in JavaScript object is a bad idea? Answer: google it
How will you get query string in a browsers URL? detail answer or window.location.search;
Why does nearly every object have a toString method?
Why Everything in JavaScript acts like an object, with the only two exceptions being null and undefined?
How would you perform inheritance in JavaScript?
How would you apply asynchronous call without any help of library
What is the difference between slice, substr, substring?



1. check Prime
Question: How would you verify a prime number?

Answer: a prime number is only divisible by itself and 1. So, i will run a while loop and increase by 1. (look at the code example. If you dont get it. this is not your cake. do learn javaScript basics and come back.)


function isPrime(n){
  var divisor = 2;

  while (n > divisor){
    if(n % divisor == 0){
     return false; 
    }
    else
      divisor++;
  }
  return true;
}

> isPrime(137);
  = true
> isPrime(237);
  = false
        
Interviewer: Can you make this better?

You: yes. the divisor are increased 1 at a time. after 3 i can increase by 2. if a number is divisible by any even number, it will be divisible by 2.

Extra: if you dont have to increase the divisor up to the number. you can stop much earlier. let me explain it in the following steps (just seat back and read as many times as needed)

2. Prime Factors
Question: How could you find all prime factors of a number?

Answer: Run a while loop. start dividing by two and if not divisible increase divider until u r done.


function primeFactors(n){
  var factors = [], 
      divisor = 2;
  
  while(n>2){
    if(n % divisor == 0){
       factors.push(divisor); 
       n= n/ divisor;
    }
    else{
      divisor++;
    }     
  }
  return factors;
}

> primeFactors(69);
  = [3, 23]
        
Interviewer:What is the run time complexity? can you make this better

You: this is O(n). you can increase divisor by 2 form divisor = 3. Because, if a number is divisible by any even number it would divisible by 2. Hence, you dont need to divide by even numbers. Besides, you will not have a factor bigger than half of its value. if you want make it complex use tough concept in no. 1 (try-2. if u get it)

3. Fibonacci
Question: How do get nth Fibonacci number?

Answer: I create an array and start from iterate through.

Fibonacci series is one of the most popular interview question for beginners. so, you have to learn this one.

try 1

function fibonacci(n){
  var fibo = [0, 1];
  
  if (n <= 2) return 1;

  for (var i = 2; i <=n; i++ ){
   fibo[i] = fibo[i-1]+fibo[i-2];
  }

 return fibo[n];
} 

> fibonacci(12);
  = 144       
Interviewer: What is the run time complexity?

you: O(n)

Interviewer: can you make it recursive?


try 2

function fibonacci(n){
  if(n<=1)
    return n;
  else
    return fibonacci(n-1) + fibonacci (n-2);  
}

> fibonacci(12);
  = 144
         
Interviewer: What is the run time complexity?

You: O(2n). detail about complexity

4. Greatest Common Divisor
Question: How would you find the greatest common divisor of two numbers?



function greatestCommonDivisor(a, b){
  var divisor = 2, 
      greatestDivisor = 1;

  //if u pass a -ve number this will not work. fix it dude!!
  if (a < 2 || b < 2)
     return 1;
  
  while(a >= divisor && b >= divisor){
   if(a %divisor == 0 && b% divisor ==0){
      greatestDivisor = divisor;      
    }
   divisor++;
  }
  return greatestDivisor;
}

> greatestCommonDivisor(14, 21);
  =7 
> greatestCommonDivisor(69, 169);
  = 1

        
fancy algorithm
Sorry. can't explain it. As i myself dont understand it 80% of the times. my algorithm analysis instructor told about this and stole if from class note (i am a good student, btw!)


function greatestCommonDivisor(a, b){
   if(b == 0)
     return a;
   else 
     return greatestCommonDivisor(b, a%b);
}
        
Note: use your brain to understand it.

5. remove Duplicate
Question: How would you remove duplicate members from an array?

Answer: will start a while looping and keep an object/ associated array. If i find an element for the first time i will set its value as true (that will tell me element added once.). if i find a element in the exists object, i will not insert it into the return array.


function removeDuplicate(arr){
  var exists ={},
      outArr = [], 
      elm;

  for(var i =0; i<arr.length; i++){
    elm = arr[i];
    if(!exists[elm]){
      outArr.push(elm);
      exists[elm] = true;
   }
  }
  return outArr;
}

> removeDuplicate([1,3,3,3,1,5,6,7,8,1]);
  = [1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8]
        
6. merge two sorted array
Question: How would you merge two sorted array?

Answer: I will keep a pointer for each array and (read the code. and be careful about this one.)


function mergeSortedArray(a, b){
  var merged = [], 
      aElm = a[0],
      bElm = b[0],
      i = 1,
      j = 1;
  
  if(a.length ==0)
    return b;
  if(b.length ==0)
    return a;
  /* 
  if aElm or bElm exists we will insert to merged array
  (will go inside while loop)
   to insert: aElm exists and bElm doesn't exists
             or both exists and aElm < bElm
    this is the critical part of the example            
  */
  while(aElm || bElm){
   if((aElm && !bElm) || aElm < bElm){
     merged.push(aElm);
     aElm = a[i++];
   }   
   else {
     merged.push(bElm);
     bElm = b[j++];
   }
  }
  return merged;
}

> mergeSortedArray([2,5,6,9], [1,2,3,29]);
 = [1, 2, 2, 3, 5, 6, 9, 29]
        
7. swap number without temp
Question: How would you swap two numbers without using a temporary variable?

Answer: Waste time about thinking it. though u know the answer, act like you are thinking and take your time to answer this one.


function swapNumb(a, b){
  console.log('before swap: ','a: ', a, 'b: ', b);
  b = b -a;
  a = a+ b;
  b = a-b;
  console.log('after swap: ','a: ', a, 'b: ', b);  
}

> swapNumb(2, 3);
   = before swap:  a:  2 b:  3
   = after swap:  a:  3 b:  2 
        
bit manipulation: Sorry, i can't explain this to you. Kinjal Dave suggested logical conjunction to understand it. Waste 30 min there at your own risk.


function swapNumb(a, b){
  console.log("a: " + a + " and b: " + b);
  a = a ^ b;
  b = a ^ b;
  a = a ^ b;
  console.log("a: " + a + " and b: " + b);
}

> swapNumb(2, 3);
  = a: 2 and b: 3
  = a: 3 and b: 2
        
8. string reverse
Question: How would you reverse a string in JavaScript?

Answer: I can loop through the string and concatenate letters to a new string

try 1

function reverse(str){
  var rtnStr = '';
  for(var i = str.length-1; i>=0;i--){
    rtnStr +=str[i];
  }
  return rtnStr;
}

> reverse('you are a nice dude');
  = "edud ecin a era uoy"
        
Interviewer: You know concatenation performed well in modern browsers but becomes slow in older browsers like IE8. Is there any different way, you can reverse a string?

Answer: sure. i can use an array and also add some checking. if string is null or other than string this will fail. let me do some type check as well. Using this array is like using string buffer in some server side languages.

try 2

function reverse(str){
  var rtnStr = [];
  if(!str || typeof str != 'string' || str.length < 2 ) return str;
  
  for(var i = str.length-1; i>=0;i--){
    rtnStr.push(str[i]);
  }
  return rtnStr.join('');
}
        
Interviewer: What is the run time complexity?

You: O(n)

Interviewer: Can you make this better?

You: I can loop through half of the index and it will save little bit. (this is kind of useless, might not impress interviewer)

try 3

function reverse(str) {
  str = str.split('');
  var len = str.length,
      halfIndex = Math.floor(len / 2) - 1,
      revStr;
  for (var i = 0; i <= halfIndex; i++) {
    revStr = str[len - i - 1];
    str[len - i - 1] = str[i];
    str[i] = revStr;
  }
  return str.join('');
}
        
Interviewer: That works, but can u do it in a recursive way?

You: sure.

try 4

function reverse (str) {
    if (str === "") {
        return "";
    } else {
        return reverse(str.substr(1)) + str.charAt(0);
    }
}
        
try 5
Interviewer: Can you use any build in method to make it little cleaner?

You: yes.


function reverse(str){
  if(!str || str.length <2) return str;
  
  return str.split('').reverse().join('');
}
        
try 6
Question: Can you make reverse function as string extension?

Answer: I need to add this function to the String.prototype and instead of using str as parameter, i need to use this


String.prototype.reverse = function (){
  if(!this || this.length <2) return this;
  
  return this.split('').reverse().join('');
}

> 'abc'.reverse();
  = 'cba'
        
9. reverse words
Question: How would you reverse words in a sentence?

Answer: You have to check for white space and walk through the string. Ask is there could be multiple whitespace.


//have a tailing white space
//fix this later
//now i m sleepy
function reverseWords(str){
 var rev = [], 
     wordLen = 0;
 for(var i = str.length-1; i>=0; i--){
   if(str[i]==' ' || i==0){
     rev.push(str.substr(i,wordLen+1));
     wordLen = 0;
   }
   else
     wordLen++;
 }
 return rev.join(' ');
}
        
A quick solution with build in methods:


function reverseWords(str){
  return str.split(' ').reverse();
}
        
10. reverse in place
Question: If you have a string like "I am the good boy". How can you generate "I ma eht doog yob"? Please note that the words are in place but reverse.

Answer: To do this, i have to do both string reverse and word reverse.


function reverseInPlace(str){
  return str.split(' ').reverse().join(' ').split('').reverse().join('');
}

> reverseInPlace('I am the good boy');
 = "I ma eht doog yob"
        
Interviewer: ok. fine. can you do it without using build in reverse function?

you: (you mumbled): what the heck!!


//sum two methods.
//you can simply split words by ' '
//and for each words, call reverse function
//put reverse in a separate function


//if u cant do this, 
//have a glass of water, and sleep
        
11. First non repeating char
Question: How could you find the first non repeating char in a string?

Answer: You must ask follow up questions.

Clarification: Is it case sensitive?

Interviewer: interviewer might say no.

Clarification: is it very long string or couple hundred?

Interviewer: Why does that matter

you: for example, if it is a very long string say a million characters and i want to check whether 26 English characters are repeating. I might check whether all characters are duplicated in every 200 letters (for example) other than looping through the whole string. this will save computation time.

Interviewer: For simplicity, you string is "the quick brown fox jumps then quickly blow air"

Clarification: (silly question) ascii or unicode.


function firstNonRepeatChar(str){
  var len = str.length,
      char, 
      charCount = {};
  for(var i =0; i<len; i++){
    char = str[i];
    if(charCount[char]){
      charCount[char]++;
    }
    else
      charCount[char] = 1;
  }
  for (var j in charCount){
    if (charCount[j]==1)
       return j;
  }
}  

>firstNonRepeatChar('the quick brown fox jumps then quickly blow air');
 = "f"
        
this has one problem. It is not guaranteed that for in loop will be executed in order.

12. remove duplicate char
Question: How will you remove duplicate characters from a sting?

You: This is very similar to first non repeating char. You will asks similar question. Is it case sensitive.

If interviewer says, this is case sensitive then life become easier you. If he says no. you can either use string.toLowercase() to make whole string lower. he might not like it. because return string will not posses the same case. So


function removeDuplicateChar(str){
  var len = str.length,
      char, 
      charCount = {}, 
      newStr = [];
  for(var i =0; i<len; i++){
    char = str[i];
    if(charCount[char]){
      charCount[char]++;
    }
    else
      charCount[char] = 1;
  }
  for (var j in charCount){
    if (charCount[j]==1)
       newStr.push(j);
  }
  return newStr.join('');
}

> removeDuplicateChar('Learn more javascript dude');
  = "Lnmojvsciptu"
        
Note:this has one problem. It is not guaranteed that for in loop will be executed in order.

For case insensitive: when u r setting property of charCount or increase counter, just make the char.toLowerCase(). or you can do something fancy with charCode (if you can deal with it.)

13. check palindrome
Question: How will you verify a word as palindrome?

Answer: if you reverse a word and it becomes same as the previous word, it is called palindrome.


function isPalindrome(str){
  var i, len = str.length;
  for(i =0; i<len/2; i++){
    if (str[i]!== str[len -1 -i])
       return false;
  }
  return true;
}

> isPalindrome('madam')
  = true
> isPalindrome('toyota')
  = false
        
or you can use build in method


function checkPalindrom(str) {
    return str == str.split('').reverse().join('');
}
        
Similar: Find whether a string contains a contiguous palindromic substring in O(n) time. Can you solve the problem in O(1) time?

14. random between 5 to 7
Question:If you have a function that generate random number between 1 to 5 how could u generate random number 1 to 7 by using that function?

Answer: Very simple. think of some basic arithmetic and you will get it.


function rand5(){
   return 1 + Math.random() * 4;
}

function rand7(){
  return 5 + rand5() / 5 * 2;
}
        

15. missing number
Question: from a unsorted array of numbers 1 to 100 excluding one number, how will you find that number.

Explanation: You have an array of numbers 1 to 100 in an array. Only one number is missing in the array. The array is unsorted. Find the missing number.

Answer: You have to act like you are thinking a lot. and then talk about the sum of a linear series of n numbers = n*(n+1)/2


function missingNumber(arr){
  var n = arr.length+1, 
  sum = 0,
  expectedSum = n* (n+1)/2;
  
  for(var i = 0, len = arr.length; i < len; i++){
    sum += arr[i];
  }
  
  return expectedSum - sum;
}

> missingNumber([5, 2, 6, 1, 3]);
  = 4
        
Note: this one will give u missing one number in any array of length

16. Sum of two
Question: From a unsorted array, check whether there are any two numbers that will sum up to a given number?

Answer: Simplest thing in the world. double loop


function sumFinder(arr, sum){
  var len = arr.length;
  
  for(var i =0; i<len-1; i++){  
     for(var j = i+1;j<len; j++){
        if (arr[i] + arr[j] == sum)
            return true;
     }
  }
  
  return false;
}

> sumFinder([6,4,3,2,1,7], 9);
  = true
> sumFinder([6,4,3,2,1,7], 2);
  = false
        
Interviewer: What is the time complexity of this function

You: O(n2)

Interviewer: Can you make this better

You: Let me see. I can have an object where i will store the difference of sum and element. And then when i get to a new element and if i find the difference is the object, then i have a pair that sums up to the desired sum.

try 2

function sumFinder(arr, sum){
  var differ = {}, 
      len = arr.length,
      substract;
  
  for(var i =0; i<len; i++){
     substract = sum - arr[i];

     if(differ[substract])
       return true;       
     else
       differ[arr[i]] = true;
  }
  
  return false;
}

> sumFinder([6,4,3,2,1,7], 9);
  = true
> sumFinder([6,4,3,2,1,7], 2);
  = false
        
similar problem: find the maximum difference of two numbers in an array max difference

Even tougherFinding three elements in an array whose sum is closest to an given number

17. Largest Sum
Question: How would you find the largest sum of any two elements?

Answer: this is actually very simple and straight forward. Just find the two largest number and return sum of them


function topSum(arr){
  
  var biggest = arr[0], 
      second = arr[1], 
      len = arr.length, 
      i = 2;

  if (len<2) return null;
  
  if (biggest<second){
    biggest = arr[1];
    second = arr[0];
  } 
  
  for(; i<len; i++){

   if(arr[i] > biggest){
      second = biggest;
      biggest = arr[i];
    }
   else if (arr[i]>second){
      second = arr[i];
   }
    
 }
 return biggest + second;
}
        
18. Counting Zeros
Question: Count Total number of zeros from 1 upto n?

Answer: If n = 50. number of 0 would be 11 (0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100). Please note that 100 has two 0. This one looks simple but little tricky

Explanation: So the tick here is. if you have a number 1 to 50 the value is 5. just 50 divided by 10. However, if the value is 100. the value is 11. you will get by 100/10 = 10 and 10/10. Thats how you will get in the more zeros in one number like (100, 200, 1000)


function countZero(n){
  var count = 0;
  while(n>0){
   count += Math.floor(n/10);
   n = n/10;
  }
  return count;
}

> countZero(2014);
  = 223
        
19. subString
Question: How can you match substring of a sting?

Answer: Will use to pointer (one for string and another for the substring) while iterating the string. And will have another variable to hold the starting index of the initial match.


function subStringFinder(str, subStr){
  var idx = 0,
      i = 0,
      j = 0,
      len = str.length,
      subLen = subStr.length;

   for(; i<len; i++){
   
      if(str[i] == subStr[j])
         j++;
      else
         j = 0;
      
      //check starting point or a match   
      if(j == 0)
        idx = i;
      else if (j == subLen)
        return idx;
  }

  return -1;
}

> subStringFinder('abbcdabbbbbck', 'ab')
  = 0
> subStringFinder('abbcdabbbbbck', 'bck')
  = 9

//doesn't work for this one.
> subStringFinder('abbcdabbbbbck', 'bbbck')  
  = -1
            
Question: How can you fix the last problem?

Answer: figure out yourself.

20. Permutations
Question: How would you create all permutation of a string?

Answer: This could be a tough one based on you level of knowledge about algorithm.


function permutations(str){
var arr = str.split(''),
    len = arr.length, 
    perms = [],
    rest,
    picked,
    restPerms,
    next;

    if (len == 0)
        return [str];

    for (var i=0; i<len; i++)
    {
        rest = Object.create(arr);
        picked = rest.splice(i, 1);

        restPerms = permutations(rest.join(''));

       for (var j=0, jLen = restPerms.length; j< jLen; j++)
       {
           next = picked.concat(restPerms[j]);
           perms.push(next.join(''));
       }
    }
   return perms;
}
        



        1. float
Question: What does float do?

Answer: float pushes an element to the sides of a page with text wrapped around it. you can create entire page or a smaller area by using float. if size of a floated element changes, text around it will re-flow to accommodate the changes. You can have float left, right, none or inherit.

if you set, 'float: left;' for an image, it will move to the left until the margin, padding or border of another block-level element is reached. The normal flow will wrap around on the right side.

If interviewer wants to ask one question about css, that would be most likely about float.

extra: read the positioning constraints in W3.org: floating elements.

ref: css-tricks: float, float 101
2. clear
Question: How can you clear sides of a floating element?

Answer: If you clear a slide of an element, floating elements will not be accepted on that side. With 'clear' set to 'left', an element will be moved below any floating element on the left side. clear is used to stop wrap of an element around a floating element.

Question: How can you fix, "floated points don't add up to the height of a parent"?

Answer: You can use clear: both in an empty div <div style="clear: both;"></div>, you can use overflow hidden or scroll and you can float the parent as well.

What the heck? Sorry. if you didn't get the question or answer, please read "Techniques for clearing floats" in css-tricks: all about floats

ref: W3.org: clear

3. rapid fire
Question: Does css properties are case sensitive?

Answer: no.

Question: Why css selectors mixed up with cases don't apply the styles?

Answer: because, html ID and classes are case sensitive.

Question: Does margin-top or margin-bottom has effect on inline element?

Answer: no.

Question: Does padding-top or padding-bottom has effect on inline element?

Answer: no.

Question: Does padding-left or padding-right or margin-left or margin-right has effect on inline element?

Answer: yes.

Question: If you have a <p> element with font-size: 10rem, will the text be responsive when the user resizes / drags the browser window?

Answer: no.

Question: The pseudo class :checked will select inputs with type radio or checkbox, but not <option> elements.

Answer: False

Question: In a HTML document, the pseudo class :root always refers to the <html> element.

Answer: True

Question: The translate() function can move the position of an element on the z-axis.

Answer: False

4. units
Question: Which one would you prefer among px, em % or pt and why?

Answer: it depends on what you are trying to do.

px gives fine grained control and maintains alignment because 1 px or multiple of 1 px is guaranteed to look sharp. px is not cascade, this means if parent font-size is 20px and child 16px. child would be 16px.

em maintains relative size. you can have responsive fonts. em is the width of the letter 'm' in the selected typeface. However, this concept is tricky. 1em is equal to the current font-size of the element or the browser default. if u sent font-size to 16px then 1em = 16px. The common practice is to set default body font-size to 62.5% (equal to 10px). em is cascade

% sets font-size relative to the font size of the body. Hence, you have to set font-size of the body to a reasonable size. this is easy to use and does cascade. for example, if parent font-size is 20px and child font-size is 50%. child would be 10px.

pt(points) are traditionally used in print. 1pt = 1/72 inch and it is fixed-size unit.

ref: css-tricks: length, css-tricks: px, em, %, css font-size

5. position
Question: How absolute, relative, fixed and static position differ?

Answer:

absolute, place an element exactly where you want to place it. absolute position is actually set relative to the element's parent. if no parent available then relatively place to the page itself.

relative, is position an element relative to itself (from where the element would be placed, if u don't apply relative positioning). for example, if u set position relative to an element and set top: 10px, it will move 10px down from where it would be normally.

fixed, element is positioned relative to viewport or the browser window itself. viewport doesn't changed if u scroll and hence fixed element will stay right in the same position.

static, element will be positioned based on the normal flow of the document. usually, u will use position static to remove other position might be applied to an element.

ref: css positioning in ten steps, css position, MDN: position

6. display vs visibility
Question: What are the differences between visibility hidden and display none?

Answer: display: none removes the element from the normal layout flow and allow other elements to fill in. visibility: hidden tag is rendered, it takes space in the normal flow but doesn't show it.

if u want to say it smartly, display: none causes DOM reflow where is visibility: hidden doesn't. btw, what is re-flow? answer. sorry i wont tell you, google it.

ref: visibility vs Display

7. inline block
Question: What are the differences between inline, block and inline-block?

Answer:

inline, elements do not break the flow. think of span it fits in the line. Important points about inline elements, margin/ padding will push other elements horizontally not vertically. Moreover, inline elements ignores height and width.

block, breaks the flow and dont sits inline. they are usually container like div, section, ul and also text p, h1, etc.

inline-block, will be similar to inline and will go with the flow of the page. Only differences is this this will take height and width.

ref: display

8. box model
Question: What are the properties related to box model?

Answer: Technically, height, width, padding and border are part of box model and margin is related to it.

Extra: Everything in a web page is a box where you can control size, position, background, etc. Each box/ content area is optionally surrounded by padding, border and margin. When you set height and width of an element, you set content height and width.

ref: W3: box model, css box model, Whats wrong with box model

9. overflow
Question: Does overflow: hidden create a new block formatting context?

Answer: yes

Extra: overflow property deals with the content if content size exceeds the allocated size for the content. You can make extra content visible, hidden, scroll or auto (viewport default behavior).


ref: overflow (read the link and add something from it)

10. media queries
Question: How could you apply css rules specific to a media?

Answer: @media (max-width: 700px){...} means you want to apply rules to those media whose max-width is 700 px. this means every smaller device will have this rule.

@media (max-width: 700px) and (orientation: landscape){...} will apply rules for media smaller than 700px and in landscape orientation.

Question: What is the use of only?

Answer: to hide style sheets from older user agents.

Question: Does the screen keyword apply to the device's physical screen or the browser's viewport?

Answer: Browser's Viewport

ref: how to use media queries, css media queries, W3: media queries

11. pseudo class
Question: What are the some pseudo classed u have used?

Answer: pseudo class tells you specific state of an element. allow to style element dynamically. The most popular one is :hover. Besides i have used :visited, :focus, :nth-child, nth-of-type, :link, etc.

pseudo classes is better if you don't want to mess up with javaScript however, pseudo-classes is slow to process and apply rules.

ref: How to use pseudo classes, meet pseudo classes, list of pseudo classes

pseudo elements
pseudo elements helps you to add cosmetics contents. pseudo elements generates content where as pseudo class deals with state of the element. for example, you can style :first-letter of every paragraph. similarly, :first-line and fancy stuff with :before, :after

ref: intro to css pseudo element, :before :after, css content, W3: generate content

12. vertical Center
Question: How do you align a p center-center inside a div?

Answer: text-align: centerwill do the horizontal alignment but vertical-align: middle will not work here. there are couple of different ways to solve this problem and one of them are positioning. You make the parent as relative position and child as absolute positioning. And then define all position parameter as sero and width 50% and height 30% (sounds messy look at the example and read ref)

ref: 6 methods for vertical center, Absolute horizontal and vertical centering

13. optimize selector
Question: How do you optimize css selectors?

Answer: This is very open and depend on what you are trying to achieve. If i order selectors in terms of render speed it would be like id, class, tag, siblings, child, descendant, universal, attribute, pseudo. Speed of ID and class is very close. However your code should be readable, maintainable and DRY along with highly performant.

The best practices in general are: avoid universal selectors, don't repeat yourself, remove redundant selectors, be as specific as possible, and keep learning.

ref: Efficient CSS selectors, efficiently rendering

14. @import
Question: How can you load css resources conditionally?

Answer: @import allows you to load/ import stylesheet by using a path (uri) representing the location of the file. You can define one or more media by comma separation for which you want to load the stylesheet. If browser dont support the media stylesheet will not be loaded.

ref: be careful while using @import (don't use @import)

15. sprite
Question: Why would you use sprites?

Answer: When you have multiple images/ icons, browser makes separate call to the server for each one of them. sprite is a technique to combine all/ some of them (usually similar one in terms of type of image. For example, you will put jpg in one sprite) in one image. To display the icon you set height, width and background position.

popular libraries like bootstrap use this technique. If you repeat the image. want to scale you have to be careful with sprite.

ref: css sprites, generate sprites

16. specificity
Question: What is specificity? How do u calculate specificity?

Answer: is a process of determining which css rule will be applied to an element. it actually determines which rules will take precedence.

inline style usually wins then ID then class value (or pseudo-class or attribute selector), universal selector (*) has no specificity.

ref: css specificity: things you need to know, specifishity, specificity calculator

17. shadow DOM
Question: What is shadow DOM?

Answer: encapsulate part of a DOM. hide subtree. you can have same ID in different shadow DOM. Polymers uses it. This way your DOM becomes reusable. if interviewer is not happy with your answer give him the links and tell him to spend a weekend on reading.

ref: W3: shadow-DOM, html5rock: shadow DOM

18. transition
Question: What do you know about transition?

Answer: transition allows to add an effect while changing from one style to another. You can set the which property you want to transition, duration, how you want to transit (linear, ease, ease-in, ease-out, cubic-bezier) and delay when transition will start. you can transition more than one property by comma separation

ref: all you need to know about css transition, transition: tutorial, css transition, transition and 3D

19. filter
Question: What are the different css filter you can use?

Answer: css filter allows u to render DOM element, image, or video. u can choose from: grayscale, blur, opacity, brightness, contrast.

ref: Understanding css filter effect

20. pre processor
Question: What are the reasons to use preprocessor?

Answer: you write css in high level with some special syntax (declaring variable, nested syntax, mathematical operations, etc.) and that is compiled to css. Preprocessor helps you to speed up develop, maintain, ensure best practices and also confirms concatenation, compression, etc.

ref: css preprocessor, working with preprocessor
21. see & tell
Question: What would be the color of text "I am awesome" for he following rules?

html: for questions a-d.


<ul class="shopping-list" id="awesome">
    <li><span>Milk</span></li>
    <li class="favorite" id="must-buy"><span class="highlight">I am awesome</span></li>
</ul>
  
a.

<style>
  ul#awesome {
    color: red;
  }
  ul.shopping-list li.favorite span {
    color: blue;
  }
</style>
Answer: blue


b.

<style>
 ul#awesome #must-buy {
    color: red;
 }
 .favorite span {
    color: blue!important;
 }
</style>

Answer: blue


c.

<style>
  ul.shopping-list li .highlight {
    color: red;
  }
  ul.shopping-list li .highlight:nth-of-type(odd) {
    color: blue;
  }
</style>

Answer: blue


d.

<style>
  #awesome .favorite:not(#awesome) .highlight {
    color: red;
  }
  #awesome .highlight:nth-of-type(1):nth-last-of-type(1) {
    color: blue;
  }
</style>

Answer: red

Position related
Question: What will happen to the position of #myDude?


<style>
  #myDude {
    margin-bottom: -5px;
  }
</style>
<p id="myDude">Dude</p>
  
Answer: All elements succeeding #myDude will move 5px updward.

reason: .


<style>
  #myDude {
    margin-left: -5px;
  }
</style>
<p id="myDude">Dude</p>
  
Answer: #myDude will move 5px left.

download resources
Question: On page load, will mypic.jpg get downloaded by the browser?.


<style>
  #test2 {
    background-image: url('mypic.jpg');
    display: none;
  }
</style>
<div id="test1">
    <span id="test2"></span>
</div>
  
Answer: yes.

Question: On page load, will mypic.jpg get downloaded by the browser?


<style>
  #test1 {
    display: none;
  }
  #test2 {
    background-image: url('mypic.jpg');
    visibility: hidden;
  }
</style>
<div id="test1">
    <span id="test2"></span>
</div>
  
Answer: No.


read selector
Question: What will this selector do?


[role=navigation] > ul a:not([href^=mailto]) {

}
  
Answer: This selects anchor links that are not email links that are decedents of an unordered list that is the direct child of any element with a role attribute of 'navigation'. this answer copied from css tricks

ref: show & tell is mostly based on David Shariff: quiz


1. window vs document
Question: Is there any difference between window and document?

Answer: Yes. JavaScript has a global object and everything runs under it. window is that global object that holds global variables, global functions, location, history everything is under it. Besides, setTimeout, ajax call (XMLHttpRequest), console or localStorage are part of window.

document is also under window. document is a property of the window object. document represents the DOM and DOM is the object oriented representation of the html markup you have written. All the nodes are part of document. Hence you can use getElementById or addEventListener on document. These methods are not present in the window object.


window.document === document; //true
window.getElementById; //undefined
document.getElementById; //function getElementById() { [native code] }
      
ref: document and window

2. window.onload vs document.onload
Question: Does document.onload and window.onload fire at the same time?

Answer: window.onload is fired when DOM is ready and all the contents including images, css, scripts, sub-frames, etc. finished loaded. This means everything is loaded.

document.onload is fired when DOM (DOM tree built from markup code within the document)is ready which can be prior to images and other external content is loaded.

Think about the differences between window and document, this would be easier for you.

Bonus:document.readyState Returns "loading" while the Document is loading, "interactive" once it is finished parsing but still loading sub-resources, and "complete" once it has loaded. The readystatechange event fires on the Document object when this value changes.

ref: MDN: readyState

3. attribute vs property
Question: Is attribute similar to property?

Answer: attributes are just like attribute in your html tag (XML style attribute) inside the starting tag. html attributes are exposed to the DOM via property. Hence, a property is created when DOM is parsed for each attribute in the html tag. If you change an attribute only the value of the property will change. However, the value of attribute will remain same.


4. DOM Query
Question: What are the different ways to get an element from DOM?

Answer: You can use the following methods in document

getElementById to get a element that has the provided Id.
getElementsByClassName to get a nodelist (nodelist is not an array, rather it is array-like object) by providing a class name.
getElementsByTagName to get a nodelist by the provided tag name.
querySelector you will pass css style selector (jquery style) and this will retrurn first matched element in the DOM.
querySelectorAll will return a non-live nodelist by using depth-first pre order traversal of all the matched elements. Non-live means, any changes after selecting the elements will not be reflected.
There are two more options but I dont use them frequently-

getElementsByName returns the list of elements by the provided name of the html tag
getElementsByTagNameNS returns elements with particular tag name within the provided namespace
5. Fastest way to Query DOM
Question: What is the fastest way to select elements by using css selectors?

Answer: It depends on what you are selecting. If you have an ID of an element getElmentById is the fastest way to select an element. However, you should not have so many ID in you document to avoid style repetition. css class getElementsByClassName is the second quickest way to select an element

Here is the list. As we go downwards through the list, it takes more time to select elements.

ID (#myID)
Class (.myClass)
Tag (div, p)
Sibling (div+p, div~p)
child (div>p)
Descendant (div p)
Universal (*)
Attribute (input[type="checkbox"])
Pseudo (p:first-child)
If you have crazy long selectors to select element, think about your selectors and check whether you can use a class instead.

6. Use forEach on NodeList
Question: How come, I can't use forEach or similar array methods on a NodeList?

Answer: Yeah. Both array and nodeList have length and you can loop through elements but they are not same object.

Both are inherited from Object. However array has different prototype object than nodeList. forEach, map, etc are on array.prototype which doesn't exist in the NodeList.prototype object. Hence, you don't have forEach on a nodeList


myArray --> Array.prototype --> Object.prototype --> null

myNodeList --> NodeList.prototype --> Object.prototype --> null
      
Question: How could you solve this problem?

Answer: To solve this problem, you can simply loop through a nodeList and do whatever you wanted to inside forEach or you can call method on array to convert nodelist to an array. After that you will have access to all array.prototype methods


var myNodeList = document.querySelectorAll('.my-class');
var nodesArray = Array.prototype.slice.call(myNodeList);

//use array method on nodeList
nodesArray.forEach(function(el, idx){
  console.log(idx, el);
});
      
ref: MDN: nodelist

7. getElementsByAttribute
Question: If you need to implement getElementByAttribute, how would you implement it?

Answer: First, get all the elements in the DOM. You can either get it by Tag Name '*' and then check whether they have the particular attribute. In this case, even if attribute is null that will be captured. If you need to check the value, you should be able to do it by passing one extra parameter and comparing it in the if block.


function getElementsByAttribute(attribute){
  var allElements = document.getElementsByTagName('*'), 
      elm,
      found=[];
  for (var i = 0; i < allElements.length; i++)
   {
    elm = allElements[i];
    if (elm.getAttribute(attribute))
    {
      found.push(elm);
    }
  }
  return found;
}
        
Question: Can I add this getElementsByAttribute to document?

Answer: Mr. Interviewer, please read this article: whats wrong with extending the dom

8. add class
Question: How would you add a class to an element by query selector?

Answer: Very simple. Just get the element and add the classname to the classlist.


function addClass(selector, className){
   var elm = document.querySelector(selector);
   if (elm){
      elm.classList.add(className);
   }
}
        
Similarly, you can implement removeClass, toggleClass and hasClass


//IE9+
el.classList.remove('my-class'); //removing a class
el.classList.toggle('my-class');  // toggling a class
el.classList.contains('my-class'); // checking whether class exists
        
ref: you might not need jquery.

9. Check Descendant
Question: How could I verify whether one element is child of another?

Answer: First check whether the passed parent is the direct parent of the child. If not, keep moving upward to the root of the tree.


function isDescendant(parent, child){ 
  while(child.parentNode ){ 
    if(child.parentNode == parent)
      return true;
    else
      child = child.parentNode;
  }
  return false;
}
        
10. innerHTML vs appendChild
Question: What is the best way to create a DOM element? Set innherHTML or use createElement?

Answer: When you set innerHTML property, browser removes all the current children of the elements. Parse the string and assign the parsed string to the element as children.

For example, if you want to add a list item to an unorderedList. You can get the element and set the innerHTML of the element like


var ul = document.getElementById('myList');

el.innerHTML = '<li>Only one item</li>';              
      
Extra Credit: innerHTML could be slow while parsing a string. Browser has to deal with the string and if you have crappy html (invalid html).

appendChild
On the other hand, while using appendChild, you create a new Element. Since you are creating it, browser doesnt have to parse string and there is no invalid html. And you can pass the child to the parent and child will be appended to the parent.


var li = document.createElement("li");
var text = document.createTextNode('Only one Item');

li.appendChild(text);
ul.appendChild(li);
      
Extra Credit: If you pass a reference to be appended as child other than creating a new element. The reference you are passing will be removed from the current parent and will be added to the new parent you are appending to.

Though you would be writing couple more lines of JavaScript, it makes browsers life easier and your page faster.

11. CrateDocumentFragment
Question: What is createDocumentFragment and why you might use it?

Answer: documentFragment a very lightweight or minimal part of a DOM or a subtree of a DOM tree. It is very helpful when you are manipulating a part of DOM for multiple times. It becomes expensive to hit a certain portion of DOM for hundreds time. You might cause reflow for hundred times. Stay tuned for reflow.

If you are changing dom that cause expensive reflow, you can avoid it by using documentFragment as it is managed in the memory.


//bad practice. you are hitting the DOM every single time
var list = ['foo', 'bar', 'baz', ... ],
    el, text;
for (var i = 0; i < list.length; i++) {
    el = document.createElement('li');
    text = document.createTextNode(list[i]);
    el.appendChild(text);
    document.body.appendChild(el);
}
      

//good practice. you causing reflow one time
var fragment = document.createDocumentFragment(),
    list = ['foo', 'bar', 'baz', ...],
    el, text;
for (var i = 0; i < list.length; i++) {
    el = document.createElement('li');
    text = document.createTextNode(list[i]);
    el.appendChild(text);
    fragment.appendChild(el);
}
document.body.appendChild(fragment);
      
ref: W3: spec

12. reflow
Question: What is reflow? What causes reflow? How could you reduce reflow?

Answer: Aha... so many questions at the same time. Take a breathe Mr. Interviewer.

reflow: When you change size or position of an element in the page, all the elements after it has to change their position according to the changes you made. For example, if you change height on an element, all the elements under it has to move down in the page to accomodate a change in height. Hence, flow of the elements in the page is changed and this is called reflow.

Why reflow is bad: Reflows could be very expensive and it might have a performance hit specially in the smaller devices like phone. As it might causes changes in the portion (or whole) layout of the page.

Reasons to reflow: The following cases causes reflow

change layout (geometry of the page)
resize the window
change height/width of any element
changing font
change font size
move DOM element (animation)
adding or removing stylesheet
calculating offset height or offset width
display: none;
How to avoid: To avoid reflow, try to avoid doing things in the above list and some more in the below

avoid setting multiple inline style
apply animation to the elements that are positioned fixed or absolute
avoid tables for layout
ref: reflow and repaint: css performance makes your JS slow

13. repaint
Question: What is repaint and when does this happen?

Answer: repaint happens when you change the look of an element without changing the size and shape. This doesn't cause reflow as geometry of the element didn't changed.

How it happens:

change background color
change text color
visibility hidden
If possible, prefer repaint over reflow.

14. DOM ready
Question: How could you make sure to run some javaScript when DOM is ready like $(document).ready?

Answer: There are four different ways-

option-1: Put your script in the last tag of html body element. DOM would be ready by the time browser hits the script tag.

option-2: Place your code inside a DOMContentLoaded handler. This event will be fired when DOM is completely loaded.


document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function(){   
   //put your script here
});
      
option-3: Watch changes in the readyState of the document. And the last state is "complete" state, you can put your code there.


document.onreadystatechange = function () {  
  if (document.readyState == "complete") {
    //put your script here
  }
}
      
option-4: Search jquery source code and copy dom ready function. In that case you have a ready function that works in the older browsers as well without loading the whole jquery library.

15. Event bubble
Question: What is event bubble? How does event flows?

Answer: To understand event bubble, you have to understand what happen when you click on anything on a page.

Where you clicked: If you have a table with multiple rows and multiple columns and you click in one of the cell

You will think that you have clicked on the cell and browser will know that you have a click handler with the cell that will be fired immediately.
You are completely wrong. Right away, browser doesn't know where you have clicked.
The way browser find out where you have clicked are as follows-

Capture: When you clicked, browser knows a click event occurred. It starts from the window (lowest level/root of your website), then goes to document, then html root tag, then body, then table... its trying to reach the the as lowest level of element as possible. This is called capture phase (phase -1).
Target: When browser reach the lowest level of element. In this case, you have clicked on a table cell (table data) hence target would be "td" tag. Then browser checks whether you have any click handler attached to this element. If there is any, browser executes that click hander. This is called target phase (phase -2).
Bubbling: After firing click hander attached to "td", browser walks toward root. One level upward and check whether there is any click handler attached with table row ("tr" element). If there is any it will execute that. Then it goes to tbody, table, body, html, document, window. In this stage its moving upward and this is called event bubbling or bubbling phase (phase-3). Please note that, you clicked on cell but all the event handler with parent elements will be fired. This is actually very powerful (check event delegation)

Show live demo: Go to this link and click any layer to see event propagation.

16. Event Delegate
Question: How would you destroy multiple list items with one click handler?

Easy Solution: If you have one hundred list items that have similar event to handle. You can write one hundred event handler (actually copy paste) same code in 99 places. This works but if something changes in the event handler, you have to change in one hundred places. This doesn't call job security. This is called screwed up.

Second problem is if you want to dynamically add a new element, you have to make sure event handler is attached with the new element. More JavaScript code!

Answer: We can actually leverage event bubbling. You can have only one event handler attached to the parent element of one hundred list items. In this case, you can attach the event handler to the "ul" tag. After you click on a list item (list item does not have an event), event will bubble and "ul" has a handler. That handler will be fired.


<ul id="listToDestroy">
    <li><a href="#">first item</a></li>
    <li><a href="#">second item</a></li>
    <li><a href="#">third item</a></li>
    <li><a href="#">forth item</a></li>
    <li><a href="#">Fifth item</a></li>
</ul>
        

document.getElementById('listToDestroy').addEventListener('click', function (e) { 
    var elm = e.target.parentNode; 
        elm.parentNode.removeChild(elm);
        e.preventDefault();
});
        
17. destroy button
Question: Create a button that is destroyed by clicking on it but two new buttons are created in it's place.

Answer: One way of solving is to attach a event handler with the button to destroy itself and append two. However, we can leverage event delegate. If we attach the event hander to the parent div instead of the button itself. We don't have to add the event handler to each button we create. So, we will take advantage of event bubbling.

Try to be Smart: If both the newly created button is identical to one we are destroying, why interviewer wants to destroy exactly similar one and then create one. Why not just add one. And end result would be same, you will have two two buttons.

Interviewer: I just want to see whether you can destroy any element. Make sure when you are destroying, there is no reference to the element, otherwise, you will have memory leak. If interviewer, says ok, just create one more button on click, then use your brain to change the following code.


<div id="doubleHolder">
  <button class="double">double</button>
</div>
        

document.getElementById('doubleHolder').addEventListener('click', function (e) {   
   if(e.target.classList.contains('double')){
      var btn = document.createElement('button');
      btn.setAttribute('class', 'double');
      btn.innerHTML = 'double';

      var btn2 = document.createElement('button');
      btn2.setAttribute('class', 'double');
      btn2.innerHTML = 'double';
     
      this.appendChild(btn);
      this.appendChild(btn2);
      this.removeChild(e.target);   
    }
  }); 
        
ref: destroy button

18. Capture all click
Question: How could you capture all clicks in a page?

Answer: You can leverage, event bubble to capture all the clicks. As all the clicks will be bubbled up to the body.


document.querySelector('body').addEventListener('click', function(e){
  console.log('body clicked', e.target);
});

//or
window.onclick =function(e){
  console.log('someone clicked', e.target)
}
          
However, if event bubbling is canceled by stopPropagation() your code will not work. Think about it.

19. All text in a page
Question: How can you get all the texts in a web page?

Answer: The easiest way to get all the text is to get the innerText of body tag.


document.body.innerText;
        
Question: Can you do by accessing DOM?

Answer: Make it recursive. I used closure. There could be many other ways to implement.


function getAllText(node){
  var allText = [];

  function getNodeText(node){
      if(node && node.childNodes && node.childNodes.length){
          for(var i = 0, len = node.childNodes.length; i<len; i++){
              getNodeText(node.childNodes[i]);
          }
      }
      else{
          allText.push(node.nodeValue);
     }
  }
  getNodeText(node);
  return allText.join('');
}
        
disclaimer: I didn't explicitly tested these two methods.

20. defer vs async
Question: What is defer and async keyword does in a script tag?

Answer: HTML parser will ignore defer and async keyword for inline script (script that does not have a src attribute).

normal: When you have a plain script tag (no defer or async keyword), parser will pause parsing, script would be downloaded and exectuted. After that parsing resume.

defer: defer keyword in the script tag will defer the execution of the script. Hence script will be executed when DOM is available. Important point is, defer is not supported by all major major browsers.

async: If possible, set the execution of the script, asynchronously. async keyword has no effect on inline script.


Image copied from JS script execution

Extra: async injected scripts are considered harmful

21. Rapid fire
Question: How could you prevent a click on an anchor from going to the link?

Answer: preventDefault() inside event handler. However, this doesnt stop further propagation.

Question: How could you stop further propagation of an event?

Answer: Call event.stopPropagation();

Question: Can you remove an event handler from an element?

Answer: Yes. target.removeEventListener('click', handler)

Question: How could you run event handler in the capturing phase not in bubble phase?

Answer: There is a third (optional) parameter in addEventListener and removeEventLister. You can pass true or false to useCapture phase.

Question: How could you prevent multiple event handler to be fired for an event?

Answer: If event listeners are attached for the same type event (click, keydown, etc.) of an element for the same event type, you can call event.stopImmediatePropagation() in the first event handler. No other event handler will be executed.

Question: What are the cancelable events?

Answer: Go to wiki find the right most column cancelable.

Question: How could I check whether an event is cancelable or not?

Answer: Use event.cancelable to get true or false return. However, you have to preventDefault() to prevent the event.

Question: Is there anything you have to be careful when using node.cloneNode()?

Answer: While cloning, make sure you didnt duplicate ID.

Question: What are different nodeTypes?

Answer: ELEMENT_NODE (1), TEXT_NODE (3), COMMENT_NODE(8), DOCUMENT_NODE(9), DOCUMENT_TYPE_NODE(10), DOCUMENT_FRAGMENT_NODE(11), etc.

Question: What are the differences between node and element?

Answer: read here.

Deleted questions
Following are the questions that weren't picked in my final list.

Explain Event loop. event loop explained or concurrency model and event loop
asynchronous vs synchronous events: events and timing
When you click on an element, what is the value of "this" inside the click handler?
How could you create Custom events? customEvents
Write a function to find the nearest link on a webpage given the mouse x,y coordinates. career cup