All the programming languages have a way to store data in multiple formats or structures and these data can be looped using different loops that are provided.

For example, in JavaScript, we can use the for, and while loops on the Array, Objects, Sets, and Maps.

While they get most of the work done, there is often we want to iterate these collections of data at convince, getting the next data from the collection at the method invocation.

const arr = [1, 2, 3, 4];
const iterator = createIterator(arr);

iterator.next(); // {value: 1, done: false}Copy
What is an iterator in JavaScript?
The iterator is a function that takes the collection as input and returns an object that has different methods, majorly next().

next() returns an object with the next value from the collection in the sequence and flag determining if we have reached the end of the collection.

{value: 10, done: false}Copy
We can create a custom iterator function by creating a closure with a variable that will track the items returned and then return an object from the function that will have a method next().




Strings, Arrays, Maps, WeakMaps, Sets, and WeakSets, all come with an iterator inbuilt while Objects don’t.

An easy to determine if your data is iterable is by using the spread operator and see if we can spread the values [....[1, 2, 3]], alternatively you can also use for…of the loop for determination.

An iterable can be iterated multiple times or only once depending upon the case defined.

We can use the Generators functions to create iterators that will iterate only once.